studio: further enhancements (#2510)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/studio/view-settings.md

# Additional Settings for a View

If you are creating a view for a DVC repo, and if the DVC repo is at the root of
the Git repository and does not reference remote/cloud storage, then you can
successfully visualize it without specifying additional settings.

Alternatively, you could create views from:

- Non-DVC repositories
- Project sub-directories in a monorepo
- Custom files in your repository or remote/cloud storage

In each of these scenarios, you will need to specify advanced settings for DVC
Studio to be able to access the data required for visualization. Details are
given below.

## Non-DVC repositories

DVC Studio creates views by identifying datasets, metrics and hyperparameters
defined in your Git repositories. These details (datasets, metrics and
hyperparameters) are stored in your Git repositories as CSV, JSON or YAML files.
You can add these details to your Git repositories in two ways:

> 1. **Set up DVC repositories**: You can use [DVC](https://dvc.org/) and Git to

Reviewer: DVC is not only about not bloating Git repo. It's about pipelines, connecting then with CML, etc. We should be explaining these benefits better I think

Author: We should have a separate section/paragraph on DVC and its benefits, and link it to the DVC doc. For now, I'm adding this to the current paragraph: "DVC also
   enables you to
   [share your data and model files](/doc/use-cases/sharing-data-and-model-files),
   [create data registries](/doc/use-cases/data-registries),
   [create data pipelines](/doc/start/data-pipelines), connect them with
   [CML](/doc/cml) for CI/CD in machine learning, and so on. Find more about the
   features and benefits of DVC [here](/doc/start)."

Reviewer: ideally we should zoom out and summarize high level benefits here (e.g. pipelines == reproducibility).

One way can be - DVC goes beyond that. It lets you organize your project in a reproducible way, it gives you way to save your experiments holistically as Git commits - data, models, metrics, params ... You could use it to organize manage your data using Git flow (data registries) ... 

something like this ...

> # Additional Settings for a View

Author: @shcheklein This is the page where I think it will be good to lead the users in case of non-dvc-repo errors. This page describes the different ways they can prepare their repo for viewing in Studio, and has a link to the DVC doc. Let me know what you think.

Reviewer: I think it's complicated still, but it's fine to start here. Later we could use a page similar to this https://dvc-org-studio-docs-v2-kfehbw2.herokuapp.com/doc/user-guide/troubleshooting 

And a mechanism with redirects - https://error.dvc.org/lock-issue

Author: Added to #2515

If you are creating a view for a DVC repo, and if the DVC repo is at the root of
the Git repository and does not reference remote/cloud storage, then you can
successfully visualize it without specifying additional settings.

> In other cases, you could be trying to create views from non-DVC repositories.
> Or, your project may be in a sub-directory inside a monorepo. Or, the data to be
> visualized could be in custom files in your repository or even in remote / cloud
> storages. In all these scenarios, you will need to specify advanced settings so
> that DVC Studio is able to access the data required for visualization. These
> scenarios have been explained in details below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you could create views from:

- Non-DVC repositories
- Project sub-directories in a monorepo
- Custom files in your repository or remote/cloud storage

In each of these scenarios, you will need to specify advanced settings for DVC
Studio to be able to access the data required for visualization. Details are
given below.
```

## Non-DVC repositories

> DVC Studio creates views by identifying datasets, metrics and hyperparameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DVC Studio creates Views by identifying datasets, metrics and hyperparameters
```

Author: Not sure if the plural 'Views' is also a keyword for us. I think non-cap views would be ok. What do you think?

defined in your Git repositories. These details (datasets, metrics and
hyperparameters) are stored in your Git repositories as CSV, JSON or YAML files.
You can add these details to your Git repositories in two ways:

1. **Set up DVC repositories**: You can use [DVC](https://dvc.org/) and Git to
   version your code, data and models all within your Git repositories. By using
   DVC, you can be sure not to bloat your repositories with large volumes of

>    data or huge models. These large assets reside in cloud or other remote

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   data or huge models. These large assets reside in the cloud or other remote
```

>    storage locations. You will simply track their version info in Git.

Reviewer 2: do we need to explain what DVC is over here? In which case there's probably already some other paragraph from elsewhere in the docs which we can copy-paste or link to.

Author: Yes. Will add.

Author: Added to #2515

   Refer to the [DVC documentation](https://dvc.org/doc) to initialize a DVC
   repository. You can then connect to this DVC repository and create a view as
   described [earlier](/doc/studio/create-view). DVC Studio automatically
   detects metrics, plots, and hyperparameters files specified in the project's

>    `dvc.yaml`. And every time you push a new commit to this DVC repository, your
>    view will reflect the new changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   `dvc.yaml`. Each time you push a commit to this DVC repository, your view
   will reflect the new changes.
```

2. **Specify custom files with your metrics and parameters**: If you are working

>    with a non-DVC repository, you can still create views for it if your
>    repository contains CSV, JSON or YAML files with the metrics and
>    hyperparameters that you want to visualize. To enable DVC Studio to visualize
>    such custom data, simply
>    [specify the custom files](#specifying-view-settings) with your metrics and
>    parameters, and DVC Studio will efficiently generate tables and plots for
>    your custom input. For instance, if you have an ML project for which you
>    generate and save metrics either manually or using some ML tracking tools,
>    then you can create a view for this project by specifying the file (within
>    your Git repo) which contains your saved metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   with a non-DVC repository, you can still create views for it provided that
   metrics and hyperparameters are stored in CSV, JSON or YAML files. To
   visualize such custom data, simply
   [specify the custom files](#specifying-view-settings) to use, and DVC Studio
   will efficiently generate tables and plots for your custom input. For instance,
   if you have an ML project for which you generate and save metrics either manually
   or using some ML tracking tools, then you can create a view for this project by
   specifying the file (within your Git repo) which contains your saved metrics.
```

Reviewer 2: or even briefer:

```suggestion
   with a non-DVC repository, you can still create views for it provided that
   metrics and hyperparameters are stored in CSV, JSON or YAML files. To
   visualize such custom data, simply
   [specify the custom files](#specifying-view-settings) to use, and DVC Studio
   will efficiently generate tables and plots for your custom input.
```

Author: I think the extra explanation may help some people. So, accepting your earlier suggestion.

## Monorepo

Depending on how you have set up your Git repositories, your DVC repo (for which
you are trying to create the view) may not be in the root of your Git repo.
Instead, it could be in a sub-directory of a
[monorepo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monorepo). If this is the case, you
will need to specify the full path to the sub-directory that you want to use
with your view.

> ## Data remotes (cloud / remote storage)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Data remotes (cloud/remote storage)
```

The metrics and parameters that you want to include in the view may also be

> present in a data remote(cloud storage or another location outside of the Git

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
present in a data remote (cloud storage or another location outside the Git
```

repo). If you want to include such data in your views, then you will have to
grant DVC Studio access to the data remote.

# Specifying View settings

For any of the scenarios defined above, specify the additional settings as
described below. You can access these settings at any time after creating the
view. For this, click on the
![](https://static.iterative.ai/img/studio/view_open_settings_icon_v2.png) icon
in the view. In the menu that opens up, click on `Settings`.

- **Custom metrics and parameters:** If you want to connect custom files, you
  can add them by clicking the `Add file` button. Enter the full file path, and
  specify whether the file is for `Metrics` or `Parameters`.

- **Monorepo:** If you have connected to a
  [monorepo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monorepo), then specify the full path
  to the sub-directory that contains the DVC repo for which you want to create
  the view.

> - **Data remotes:** If you need to set up DVC data remotes for your view, you

Author: @shcheklein Let me know if you think we need to add more details regarding data remotes setup.

Reviewer: it would be great to mention:

- we dont't read/access data
- we use it only to read plots/metrics files if they are not saved into Git. And people should use it only if they have this situation. They will see a specific message in their View.

Author: Adding this: "Note that DVC Studio uses the credentials only to read plots/metrics files if they are not saved into Git. It does not access any other data in your remote storage. And you do not need to provide the credentials if any DVC data remote in not used in your Git repository."

>   will need to do it after your view has been created. So, first create your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  will need to do it after your view has been created. First, create your
```

  view without specifying the data remotes. Once your view is created, open the
  View settings. Open the `Data remotes / cloud storage credentials` section.
  The data remotes that are used in your DVC repo will be listed. Now, click on
  `Add new credentials`. In the form that opens up, select the provider (Amazon

>   S3, GCP, etc.). depending on the provider, you will be asked for more details

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  S3, GCP, etc.). Depending on the provider, you will be asked for more details
```
